---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Avoiding Plagiarism in Scientific Writing
category: Category
tags: ['service','reviewing','teaching','advising']
---


When you present someone else's work as your own, you're committing
plagiarism. Most guidelines I've seen focus on plagiarism from the
perspective of an individual. While this perspective is not invalid, it
seems to lead to an approach to plagiarism that I disagree with overall,
namely very elaborate rules for paraphrasing [^hhs] [^iub].

I argue the more appropriate perspective in scientific writing is a
collectivist perspective that focuses on the scientific enterprise.
Science is fundamentally a process of constructing explanations through
argumentation. Arguments rely on claims, evidence, and reasoning.
Scientists are accountable for their arguments, which are published as
part of the public record. Plagiarism distorts that record by
obfuscating who is responsible for claims, evidence, and reasoning. This
is extremely problematic regardless of whether the arguments are correct
or incorrect. If the arguments are incorrect, the community does not
know to whom to turn to correct the argument, assuming it can be
corrected. If the arguments are correct, the community does not know who
is the authority on the topic and should be trusted or rewarded with
more resources.

Examples:

- An argument is believed to be incorrect, but is actually correct.
    Plagiarism puts the wrong person(s) in charge of establishing the
    validity of the argument. They fail, and a correct line of inquiry
    is abandoned.
- An argument is believed to be correct, but is actually incorrect.
    Plagiarism puts the wrong person(s) in charge of extending the line
    of inquiry. They continue and advance a flawed line of inquiry.
- A student wishes to be trained as a scientist in a particular area.
    They choose a mentor who has plagiarized work in that area. The
    student receives suboptimal training.
- A funding agency wishes to advance a line of inquiry. They fund a
    scientist who has plagiarized work in that area. The scientist
    receives funding, and since funding is a zero-sum game, the
    scientist who originated the idea does not.

The examples hopefully are sufficient to show that plagiarism damages
the scientific enterprise in profound ways.

The key to avoiding plagiarism is to understand scientific argument. I
believe the individualistic perspective on plagiarism is completely
subsumed by this, with trivial formatting-level extensions, e.g. using
double quotes and page numbers for direct quotations.

## Understanding scientific argument through citations

Perhaps the most useful way to understand scientific argument generally
is by looking at citations.

### When are citations used?

Citations are typically used in the introduction section and the
discussion section of a research paper. Citations in the introduction
section support what relevant work has previously been done on the topic
and why the current work is interesting/important. Citations in the
discussion section compare findings to other work, for example
elaborating why the findings are to be expected or not given previous
work.

What is important to realize as you read other papers, and as you write
them, is that every time an author says something, they are implicitly
making decisions about whether a citation is needed, and if so, what to
cite. Citation behavior (should) follow these conventions:

- A citation is needed if the writing is referencing other work,
    either as the source of an idea or as an example.
- A citation is not needed if the writing is advancing a novel idea or
    interpretation of the literature.
- A citation is not needed if the writing is referencing common
    knowledge in the area that is not directly attributable to specific
    work.

In other words, lack of citation implicitly claims either that the
writing advances a novel idea/interpretation or that the writing is
referencing common knowledge. How can one tell the difference between
novel ideas and common knowledge? While the major novel ideas are
sometimes marked in other ways, e.g. "We argue that\...\", this is not
always the case. For this reason, it is **extremely important** to be
well-read in the area you are writing about so that you know what is
considered to be common knowledge and what is not. You should assume
ideas/interpretations are original (and citable) unless you can
**prove** that they are not.

### What do citations mean?

Citations have a meaning beyond giving credit to other work. Because
science is argumentation, the act of citing work implies you believe
that work is sound (i.e. valid and reproducible) and you believe that
work supports the argument you are making. **So clearly you cannot cite
something that you have not read, because you can only make these
commitments for work that you *have* read.** Of course you will
sometimes want to cite flawed work or cite things in a particular way.
When you do this, you will naturally disclaim aspects of the cited work,
e.g. "Previous work has found that bosons are leptons that extend into
the 5th dimension (Choux Pastry et al., 2051), **but this work is flawed
because\...**\" However, if aspects of the work are not specifically
disclaimed, then the default assumption is that you believe in the
integrity of the work and that it supports the argument you are making.

Citations are extremely important to the scientific enterprise because
of the meaning they convey. Consider that most publications are not
cited that many times; even publications in "decent\" journals like PLoS
ONE are only cited about 3 times on average [^callaway_beat_2016]. Every
time you cite a paper, you are voting for its importance in the
mindshare of all scientists working in an area. Papers that are not
continually voted for will eventually drop out of everyone's
consciousness, either becoming part of common knowledge or being
forgotten entirely. So citations are arguably as important as the
original papers themselves. A fantastic paper that is not cited will
have less effect on the progress of science than a terrible paper that
is widely cited. In other words, citations filter the literature.

## Avoiding citation plagiarism

Hopefully the previous sections make clear why it is so important to
avoid "citation plagiarism\" or citing work that someone else has cited
without reading it and vetting it. But how can you avoid citation
plagiarism in practice? Since every paper starts with a lit review,
you'll always read someone else's lit review before writing your own. So
how can you possibly write your own lit review without plagiarizing
them? The answer to these questions is actually very simple: you can
avoid citation plagiarism by reading the original work and taking notes.

Your notes should be a commentary on what you are reading. While you
read, you want to evaluate the argument that the paper is making in
terms of evidence, claims, and reasoning. Once you have read the cited
papers, you can go back to the lit review you started with and compare
it to your own notes. Does that lit review have an idea or
interpretation that wasn't in your notes? Is it relating different
pieces of work in a way that you didn't that is important to your
argument? If so, you should cite the lit review paper **for its specific
contributions**. In contrast, you do not need to cite the lit review
paper for citations that are factual, e.g. "Jaconde Sponge et al. (2032)
used an autoregressive DNN with a denoising objective,\" assuming you
have read Jaconde Sponge et al. (2032) and believe citing it is
sound/appropriate for your argument. Finally, it is possible that as you
read the cited papers, you came to an idea/interpretation that relates
different pieces of work and is otherwise not factual in the sense of
the previous example. In this case, it is important to find a way to
cite the lit review **for its specific contributions** even though you
feel that you might have independently come to say the same thing. Not
only is it fair (after all, they said it first), but it also strengthens
your argument to cite them because they are independent researchers who
agree with you (or you agree with them). There are many ways to do this
stylistically, so if you're unsure of how to express this in writing,
take the time as you read papers to understand when, how, and why other
scientists are using citations. This will help you understand how to
cite work appropriately and avoid plagiarism.

## References

[^callaway_beat_2016]: Callaway, E. (2016). Beat it, impact factor! Publishing elite turns against controversial metric. Nature News, 535 (7611), 210. Retrieved 2020-11-17, from https://www.nature.com/news/beat-it-impact-factor-publishing-elite-turns-against-controversial-metric-1.20224 (Section: News) doi: 10.1038/nature.2016.20224

[^iub]: Indiana University. (2020). How to recognize plagiarism â€“ what you should do: School of education, indiana university bloomington. Retrieved 2020-11-17, from https://plagiarism.iu.edu/overview/shouldDo.html

[^hhs]: Roig, M. (2015). Avoiding plagiarism, self-plagiarism, and other questionable writing practices: A guide to ethical writing. Retrieved 2020-11-17, from https://ori.hhs.gov/avoiding-plagiarism-self-plagiarism-and-other-questionable-writing-practices-guide-ethical-writing