---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Announcing DataWhys Summer Internship Program 2020
category: Category
tags: ['research','education-research','datawhys', 'data-science','machine-learning','programming','statistics','service','outreach']
---
Join us at The University of Memphis for an interdisciplinary summer
internship program in data science!

The DataWhys Project at The University of Memphis is developing a
training program for LeMoyne-Owen College students outside the core data
science fields of statistics, machine learning, and computer science. As
part of this internship, interns will use and provide feedback on this
training program and complete an original data science research
project—no background in data science is needed!

Along the way, interns will work closely with faculty and graduate
student mentors to develop their data science and professional skills,
including how to research a topic, how to read a scientific paper, how
to find a dataset, and how to present results.

Accepted interns will be paid \$12/hr. and are expected to attend from
10–4pm, Monday through Thursday (with an hour for lunch), from June 1,
2020 to July 24, 2020. The program is limited to 15 students, so
priority will be given to students closer to graduation. Applicants must
be students at LeMoyne-Owen College and eligible to work in the U.S.

Students should apply online at <https://forms.gle/eAdR1C1GDwtgQymT9> .
Applications will close at 11:59 PM CST on April 8, 2020. Each
application should be supported by two letters of reference emailed to
Andrew Olney (aolney@memphis.edu). Decision notifications will be sent
out in early May.

The DataWhys Project and internship are supported by the National
Science Foundation through Grant R305A190448 for to the University of
Memphis.

-----------------------------------------------------

## Frequently Asked Questions (3/13/20)

Here are the answers to some frequently asked questions about the
DataWhys Summer Internship Program. If you have a question not answered
below, please contact <aolney@memphis.edu>.

**Q:** What about COVID-19?

**A:** If University of Memphis suspends in-person programs like the
internship program, we will move to an online format.

**Q:** Do I need to have a background in computer science or statistics
to apply?

**A:** No, we welcome students from all fields and do not assume
knowledge of programming or statistics.

**Q:** I've applied for the internship program, but I haven't gotten a
response yet? Am I accepted?

**A:** We're reviewing all applications and will make a decision and
notify all applicants at the end of April.

**Q:** I will graduate from LeMoyne-Owen in May, am I eligible?

**A:** Yes, you are eligible to apply.

**Q:** I can’t make all the sessions. Am I still eligible?

**A:** Generally, no, we expect interns to be able to attend the whole
program. However, if you needed to miss a day to go to a wedding or
funeral, that would not be a problem.

**Q:** I have another offer that I need to accept, can I get an early
decision on my application?

**A:** No, we do not give early decisions. The DataWhys Summer
Internship Program is very competitive to join. We review all
applications at once to give everyone a chance to become a part of our
program.

**Q:** I am not a US Citizen, but I am studying abroad in the US for a
year, am I eligible?

**A:** You will need to have a visa that authorizes you to intern and be
paid, so we recommend you speak with your student services
representative at about obtaining work authorization.

**Q:** I attend a college other than LeMoyne-Owen or don’t attend
college at all. Am I eligible for the DataWhys Summer Internship
Program?

**A:** No, you are not eligible. However, our training materials are
freely available, so you may use those on your own. We are also
considering offering an online course if we get enough interest. If you
belong to a business or nonprofit that would like to become an industry
partner, we may have additional opportunities for you.

